Fmi3 Implementers' guide (#238)
modelica/newsletter: _2023-01/fmi3-ig-published.md

---

> title: FMI 3.0 implementer’s guide jointly published by prostep ivip and Modelica Association Project FMI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: FMI 3.0 Implementers' Guide jointly published by prostep ivip and Modelica Association Project FMI
```

author: MAP FMI
category: association
---

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

<div style="float: right">
![fmi-logo](FMI_logo_horizontal.svg)
</div>

<div style="float: right">
![prostep-logo](prostep_logo.svg)
</div>

> #### FMI 3.0 implementer’s guide jointly published by prostep ivip and Modelica Association Project FMI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### FMI 3.0 Implementers' Guide jointly published by prostep ivip and Modelica Association Project FMI
```

The [FMI 3.0 Implementers' Guide](https://modelica.github.io/fmi-guides/main/fmi-guide/) is a free resource intended to give non-normative recommendations and guidance to implementers of the Functional Mock-up Interface (FMI) standard version 3.0.

> It has been developed jointly by prostep ivip and the Modelica Association Project FMI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has been developed jointly by the prostep ivip Smart Systems Engineering project and the Modelica Association Project FMI.
```

> The FMI 3.0 implementer’s guide provides best practice recommendations to implementers of FMI, focusing on FMI 3.0, derived from the industrial experience of the prostep Smart Systems Engineering project members and the FMI community in employing FMI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FMI 3.0 Implementers' Guide provides best practice recommendations to implementers of FMI, focusing on FMI 3.0, derived from the industrial experience of the prostep Smart Systems Engineering project members and the FMI community in employing FMI.
```

> The overarching goal of the recommendations is to aid interoperability of FMI implementations and ensure good ease-of-use for end users in employing FMI. 
> The FMI 3.0 implementer’s is intended for simulation tool vendors planning to support FMI in their products, for importing FMUs and exporting FMUs.
> It assumes a technical audience familiar with the specification documents and tries to give further information and hints in areas where either the relevant specification documents have been found less clear than expected or where user expectations are relevant to implementation choices.
> It also considers errors and bugs encountered in the practical use of existing FMI implementations and guides to avoid common pitfalls.  
> It shall be a living document and will be maintained and expanded over time as new issues or needs for clarification appear.
> All of the content is to be considered non-normative and shall not be considered to supplant any normative statement in the FMI 3.0 standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overarching goal of the recommendations is to aid interoperability of FMI implementations and ensure good ease-of-use for end users in employing FMI. 
The FMI 3.0 Implementers' Guide is intended for tool vendors planning to support FMI in their products, for importing and exporting FMUs.
It assumes a technical audience familiar with the specification documents and tries to give further information and hints in areas where either the relevant specification documents have been found less clear than expected or where user expectations are relevant to implementation choices.
It also considers errors and bugs encountered in the practical use of existing FMI implementations and guides to avoid common pitfalls.
It is intended as a living document and will be maintained and expanded over time as new issues or needs for clarification appear.
All of the content is to be considered non-normative and shall not be considered to supplant any normative statement in the FMI 3.0 standard.
```

Releases and issues can be found on [github.com/modelica/fmi-guides](https://github.com/modelica/fmi-guides/tree/main/fmi-guide).

##### Modelica Assocation Project FMI 

Webpage: [https://fmi-standard.org/](https://fmi-standard.org/),  Email: contact@fmi-standard.org

#### About prostep ivip and the Smart Systems Engineering project

> The prostep ivip Association is an international association committed to the development of innovative approaches to solving problems and modern standards for product data management and virtual product creation. It bundles the interests of manufacturers and suppliers in manufacturing industry as well as IT vendors, in close cooperation with research and science institutes, to provide its members with the long-term competitive advantages that more efficient processes, methods and systems provide. The prostep ivip Smart Systems Engineering develops recommendations for process design, promotes technical standards for the cooperative development of complex mechatronic systems, and supports the creation of transparency with regard to systems engineering objects both within and across companies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The prostep ivip association is an international association committed to the development of innovative approaches to solving problems and modern standards for product data management and virtual product creation.
It bundles the interests of manufacturers and suppliers in manufacturing industry as well as IT vendors, in close cooperation with research and science institutes, to provide its members with the long-term competitive advantages that more efficient processes, methods and systems provide.
The prostep ivip Smart Systems Engineering project develops recommendations for process design, promotes technical standards for the cooperative development of complex mechatronic systems, and supports the creation of transparency with regard to systems engineering objects both within and across companies.
```
